Deem years.
These are important relationships.
It's not employee employer.
It's if you quit and you did tell me you're leaving.
I want to be,
I want to go my car and cry.
I've been working with you for 15 years.
My relationship that I have with many people that I work with is intimate.
I've seen their children born,
I've seen them go through breakups,
I've seen them,
their parents die.
I've seen,
you know,
like
we got a war every night at six o'clock 150 people are coming to eat in the next
three hours in four restaurants.
We,
you know,
it's a job that's so freaking high stress environment for five minutes,
for for two hours.
It's week.
We got to walk properly.
We got to where we were.
We're knowledgeable of each other's space and there's a ballet,
you know when you're washing the glasses and the food's coming up behind you,
you know you have a sixth sense to know,
to move,
not to get the plate to burn your elbow.
And you know,
there's this ballet,
we dance every night with these people.
And for us to think that like,
and most people still think that we're behind the stove cooking.
I've got more phone calls to get help finding a doctor,
therapist,
whatever,
you know,
nutrition is for the staff.
Then I got calls about recipes or food or you know,
our job is,
I'm an expert in drainpipes artisinal plumbing,
artisinal electricity,
artisinal refrigeration.
I know about Greek boring now because you've done it yourself like Sarah,
very decrepit old buildings and you can't,
you know,
we're running a restaurants with employees and a constant burden of payroll and
we can't just call everybody all the time too.
So,
so you know,
by default any good cooking school today,
like what Fred is saying,
and Fred is the example of what a great chef should be.
It'd be a very good cook,
a very good person when people skills but should also have a minor and
electricity,
plumbing and refrigeration technologies stayed.
You know,
even even now,
like we both,
we both don't drink.
We both,
I wouldn't say a health kick butt,
just like wouldn't be there.
You know,
mind and body.
We want to be like present and that's,
that's my belt.
Something cool.
I want to appreciate it.
Not Be cloud.
Overlook that.
That's that.
Like people don't think about that when they get into this job.
You know,
they,
they think it's this warrior thing.
This we're savage,
we're going to drink,
we're going to party,
we're going to do this.
No.
If you want to do that till you're 60 and then get a little cottage and right
paint,
water,
color,
buy but buy a sailboat.
You have to think about it.
You know,
it's like you can't live that life of drinking and you know,
why do you think that life is synonymous with chefs?
We've been promoted and taught ultimately that you will get paid.
You will make money,
you will persevere.
If you understand how to promote excessive eating and excessive drinking,
you will be recompensed.
If you build a place where people come and eat too much and drink too much and
that spend too much,
then you will be able to have a life,
a car,
a house,
and raise children.
Okay.
So it's all good.
First you have to learn how to cook.
Then you have to learn how to run a restaurant.
Then you have to learn how to write a restaurant looks like and how to run.
And you know,
how to host,
what the playlist should be like,
how to fix a plumbing disaster,
how to fix the electricity disaster,
how to fix a city staff situation,
disaster,
how to run a clean house or people are working together with all their different
idiosyncrasies.
Uh,
but for my whole apprentice ship,
alcohol was a reward.
You know,
uh,
you did a good job tonight,
drink,
you know,
and then it went from reward,
do,
Oh shit.
There was like a blood bath in the restaurant.
You know,
we had to pick up this guy at the hospital.
Okay,
it's not a reward.
Let's forget about it.
Let's drink,
you know.
And it was,
it was always there.
You know,
it's great service.
Let's have a drink,
shitty food industry.
We are also in the wine industry because 50% of what you're doing is selling
food to people.
And the other 50% of what you're doing is selling alcohol to people.
So by default you're part of the people that sell a liquid drug dealer in that
you're in that world every day and you go to wine tastings,
you talk with people said solve an alcoholic bartenders.
You talked to people that sell wine,
you're partake in eating and other your colleagues,
restaurants and drinking wine.
Next thing you know,
you have a little bit of celebrity,
you've been open for 15 years and you look back and you'd go the seven days in a
week or seven days in a week and
I drank six of them.
I'll feel good on Sunday.
I'm just kind of recovering.
And then what?
What happens is one week turns into two to four and then you kind of look back
and you realize in 2017 that you may have drank 48 weeks out of 52 you know,
and then it goes quick.
Then it's 10 years and you're a 10 year restaurant and you've been drinking five
days out of the week for 10 years and then all of a sudden you kind of have a
problem.
You realize that like my day to day is based on food and wine.
Right now I don't want my,
it's not making me happy.
I've had all the wines have had all the foods.
Am I better for it?
Not really.
What am I better for?
Restriction eating less eating,
clean drinking only on very special occasions.
Do you still drink on specialty?
I don't.
I'm completely sober or no.
Did you make that decision based on the idea that you weren't able to control it
or just that you,
I'm one of this decision would be to just eliminate it and
textbook case of the person who couldn't drink.
Yeah,
I tried several times to stop.
I googled it.
I read about it.
It didn't work.
I was intervention by Fred and my managers of the restaurants in January 12th
around their 16th.
I think we figured,
um,
and of this year,
yeah,
I'm eight months sober or something.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
And I'm really good.
So you look healthy.
I'm happy man.
That's like the skin,
everything.
It's an amazing,
when that happens,
conversation like I was angry for a long time,
you know,
I had like,
it's not only alcoholism,
you know,
I think all alcoholics are codependent somewhat,
like,
it's just,
it had been part of my whole apprenticeship not being sober for so,
so many years.
Uh,
it was all under control and funny for a very,
very long time.
It was always a big part of my life,
drinking wine,
eating food,
um,
until it wasn't,
you know,
then one day I was,
45 my relationship with alcohol changed.
I became dark.
I became unhappy.
I had success,
I beautiful children.
I was not happy.
Uh,
you know,
I tried many different things.
Nothing worked.
I was intervention by people that I,
that I work with,
that are dear to me,
that I love very much.
Like I still love me.
They're charging tired of watching me,
you know,
make bad decisions and I just went to a great rehab called Chatsworth that
okay
educated me.
It always sitting in a classroom with a pad and paper for six hours a day
learning about the disease called alcoholism,
learning about a disease that 30% of the population has a,
you know,
and a how and why I was an addict.
You know,
at first I was an addict with food then now you're not a young age after a
traumatic event and I was an addict about with beer then I was an addict with
marijuana,
like we know all drugs and then I was an addict with wine.
A follow up,
a couple more traumatic events in your mind,
you know,
horrendous apprenticeship and the stress of leadership in these restaurants.
You know,
one thing led to another and my relationship with alcohol became not positive
with help.
I understood through with education I understood and now everything's great.
It's funny too because
yeah,
I saw it as,
as,
as an example,
you know,
I don't like to tell him it may be,
it's a little bit of mentoring.
You know,
I was the canary in the coal mine for Fred,
you know,
and I decided that I was like,
fuck,
you know what?
After Tony passed,
I was like,
you know,
I was,
I remember I was working in a,
on a new project doing tilings and I was like,
oh,
I heard the news in the morning.
I went,
I went to tile all day and then I couldn't wait to get home and have like two
bottles of wine.
And I was like,
why?
And we were the same about that.
It didn't matter.
Like what?
We love that a point.
Look for example,
we loved MMA,
right?
We love going to the fights.
We were like so fortunate.
We go and see you.
We met the FERTITTA brothers.
They discuss like we did,
we sat with them at dinner table.
We met you,
we met all those guys.
Uh,
David loves wine making meth,
all the wine makers.
We met the best people in the field that we loved.
Charmed life,
not happy,
ungrateful,
fucking little pricks.
Well,
you know,
I think part of the problem is that alcohol is a depressant.
Correct?
Just you,
you get down,
it just,
it brings you down,
it brings your energy level down.
It brings the spider bites,
I'll call it a solvent,
and it destroys your soft brain tissue.
And I was taught that in Rehab.
So when you drink acetone,
I don't know,
well if it was made by a lovely French vineyard with Barnyard Roma,
but do you,
do you miss anything about the flavor of wine with a meal or anything?
Have you ever tried not dance?
I don't even know.
I go to wine tastings.
I was just so raw wine in Las and Las Angeles.
I went to taste all the natural wines.
Beautiful natural wine festival.
Uh,
and you can taste them still.
I taste them.
I don't swallow.
I rinse my mouth out.
Very much involved in natural wine and the,
and,
and that in viticulture reading and all that stuff.
That's gotta be so weird to have a mouthful of delicious one is spit it into a
bucket.
No,
it's the same.
Really.
Yeah.
It's like,
cause that's why did I drink wine?
I'll factory the nose.
The flavor,
understanding the winemaker,
his philosophy,
the,
the geography of where the wine comes from.
His work with,
you know,
with using organic and biodynamic viticulture,
uh,
not using sulfur,
just making this amazing organic beverage with very little intervention,
natural line without side effects.
I don't have to swallow it because the drug is the same drug that it's an that's
in all the other ones that they can't change flavors.
What's different?
Yes.
You know,
and what I like is more of the story.
That guy,
the vineyard,
the varietals,
the,
you know,
what'd you eat at a fine restaurant and have a delicious steak and uh,
we do wine accompaniment and then just spit it into a bucket.
I've done it.
Goes to the bathroom.
I had to,
I wasn't really worried.
Shuts his mouth and he goes to the bathroom.
I was worried a mouth full of wine.
Roz Ryan,
Ryan grave,
our friend from Atlanta that worked with us for years.
Ryan goes to a restaurant and asks for a bucket
and he'll sit with other people,
people in the wine business and they all drink wine and he tastes the wine and
he has discussions about wine and he tastes it and spits it and you know he's an
alcoholic.
He's a recovered alcoholic three years,
but he's a wine buyer and he's very much about,
he was my mentor when I got out of that Rehab Cause in rehab they were telling
me you may never be able to go back to the restaurant.
What?
Yeah.
And I was a high risk of re offending and I was like I can't like I go,
I don't know anything else.
Like I have no education.
I've been in kitchens since I'm 17 way too late for med school and we don't do
well in that arose.
I also don't want to clean iceberg lettuce with the fruits and vegetable store
and try to make a go of that.
And you know,
it's funny too,
like even like dealcoholized beer,
non alcoholic beer,
it's better than alcoholic beer.
What are you talking about?
Heineken zero zero man.
Chris.
Really Chris.
Outstanding.
Really?
Heineken zero zero.
Outstanding.
It's really good.
I just fine.
Well I've only had like,
oh duels no,
that's not good.
Okay,
so,
so Heineken does it correctly.
Did the,
the the order of non alcoholic beer,
okay.
In my head is Heineken Zero Zero Carlsberg Zero grolsch zero roll backs zero and
then everything else is not good after let me out to death because I'm also
celiac.
Right?
And there's a gluten they make in Montreal.
That's no gluten and no alcohol.
Now you can insert any joke you want.
People that are signing off the pie.
I thought these guys are going to talk about heroin and kid fuck meat meat.
They'll eat meat.
Yes,
I'm sure.
I'm sure that this is,
um,
that's fascinating though that you actually still taste it and still,
it's almost like if you're a heroin,
a heroin addict,
just scratching the skin with a needle,
we don't penetrate.
I don't recommend that.
You know,
my therapist and the people that Rehab do not recommend that I taste wine and
spit it,
but sure they don't.
But I have friends.
Again,
I know a lot of,
some liaise and even I know wine makers,
some of the most famous wine makers in the world I've met in Burgundy at an abd
that are completely sober.
Wow.
Because they want it to break.
This cycle of,
my great grandfather was an alcoholic,
abusive person.
My grandfather was an alcoholic,
My father was an alcoholic,
abusive person,
and I didn't want to take over this thousand year old winery,
the legacy of my family.
I didn't want to work here.
And I'm sure like,
you know what?
All the Epi genetics stuff,
if you don't drink when your kids are young,
like they might be a thing where you can stop the passing of the gene.
You know.